I'm head and neck cancers are treated in
a couple different ways number one we do
surgery I'm a head and neck surgeon so
that's how I treat patients but a lot of
the patients that we see are also
treated with other things such as
radiation therapy chemotherapy and some
of the new biologically targeted
therapies and we use these each of these
treatments either alone or in
combination our findings show that while
we used to try to identify a treatment
that would be good for the majority of
head and neck cancer patients or
patients with any cancer what we found
with this study by looking at all the
different genes and whether they're
mutated in cancer we've been able to
find that each patients tumor is unique
and has a different combination of
mutations and this makes sense why some
patients haven't responded to two
treatments that work for other patients
and it really supports this notion of
personalized cancer therapy where rather
than picking the right treatment for
every patient we picked the right
treatment for the patient in front of us
based on their genetic signature and the
the profile of mutations and other
genetic abnormalities they have in their
tumor I think a couple of the findings
of this recent study will help us with
treatment of patients in the near and
long term in the near term we've found a
few patients who have mutations in genes
that are upregulated including the pi3
kinase gene for which there are drugs
that are currently under study to target
the pi3 kinase and it will be able to
select patients for clinical trials of
agents at target pi3 kinase in the
longer term we'll be able to look at
some of the mutations that we found in
tumor suppressor genes like p53 and
notch one
as well as other genes that we found and
to see how patients who have these
mutations do with our conventional
treatments of surgery radiation
chemotherapy and chemo radiotherapy and
see whether patients with these
mutations divorce them patients that
don't have the mutations and if we find
that they do then that helps us to
identify a group of patients that need
additional or different treatments and
helps us to select the appropriate
treatment for an individual patient
based on the spectrum mutations we find
at their tumor